Intro To Dynamic Routing

What is a protocol?
 A protocol is to exchange network information through each other.
 
 Please list types of router metrics. Router metrics are metrics used by a router to make routing decisions.

Load

Latency

Number of Hops

Path reliability

Path bandwidth

 Packet Tracer Class Lab - Understanding RIP

This Packet Tracer lab has been provided to help you gain a better understanding of how to configure and troubleshoot RIP version 2 in this lab we will configure a basic lab topology, enable RIPv2 on the routers and configure them to advertise their networks.
Learning Objectives:

    Review basic router and switch configuration.
    Enable RIPv2 on a router.
    Advertise networks using RIPv2.
    Observe and inspect RIPv2 Packets



The Routing Information Protocol (RIP) is one of the oldest distance-vector routing protocols, which uses the hop count as a routing metric. 
RIP avoids routing loops by employing a limit on the number of hops permitted in a path from the source to a destination. 
The maximum number of hops permitted for RIP is 15. 
A hop count of 16 is considered an infinite distance, in other words the route is considered unreachable. 
Despite this limitation, RIP works great for basic route communications between devices.



Cisco routers don't enable RIPv2 by default. To use RIPv2, you must use the ver 2 command in RIP Router Configuration Mode.
RIP uses hop count as it’s metric.

RIP performs "routing by rumor" and is more prone to loops than other routing protocols. 
That's because a RIP router sends its entire routing table to every other router. 
All other routers do the same, and because there's no real neighbor relationship or calculation of routes, the routers have little firsthand knowledge of available networks.

Lab Steps: 

router rip

version 2

Example Network:

network 192.168.30.0

network 10.10.20.0

In Packet Tracer - switch to "Simulation Mode" (Stopwatch icon in Lower Right)
Under Event List Filters - Visible Event - Click Show All/None
Then click Edit Filters - and Select RIP
Click the "Capture/Forward" button in the lower center of the screen repeatedly. You should see RIP packets traversing the network.

